---
draft: true
date: 2021-01-01T12:00:00+0100
title: 2021 in Review
description: Looking back on the highs and lows of my year and planning for the year ahead, for the first time.
---

During a quiet and relaxing break from work—though riddled with the cheeky [rabbit hole](https://fediverse.repc.co) here and there—I had time to reflect on the year (and some change) that has passed and look ahead at 2022 to see where I can make it better than the last.

## Flooding the engine

I think a fair assessment of my drive and motivation this year would be to say that I’ve been travelling across stupendous mountains and formidable valleys. That is to say that I’ve had a great and a terrible year.

## Watching and waiting

There are certainly some fresh and exciting new features coming soon to the web soon—this year, I hope—and I’ll be keeping my eyes glued on the progress of browsers in supporting these amazing features:

### CSS Nesting

{% browserSupport 'css-nesting' %}

In particular, I’m really excited about native CSS nesting and what it will mean for the future of Sass. To be clear, I am a huge fan of Sass (SCSS) and use it in all of my work, but the fact still stands that it has to be compiled into CSS to be usable by a browser. It would be amazing to remove this build step now that CSS Variables have a rock-solid foothold in modern browsers.

Not only will the syntactic sugar of nesting improve the experience of authoring CSS but it will also introduce some interoperability between CSS and SCSS, i.e. you might be able to copy a snippet of SCSS and use it in vanilla CSS without problem. This could also introduce some new problems and allow some old ones to re-emerge (obsessive nesting in SCSS which seems to *mostly* be a thing of the past), but on the whole, this is a tremendous feature that I can’t wait for.

### `:has()` CSS relational pseudo-class

{% browserSupport 'css-has' %}

**The parent selector.**

…

Let me say that again for the folks in the back:

**THE PARENT SELECTOR!**

We’ve been dreaming about this for as long as I’ve been a developer and finally it’s coming. Already, you can hear the hushed tones of excitement on the horizon.

### CSS `color()` function

{% browserSupport 'css-color-function' %}

### LCH and Lab color values

{% browserSupport 'css-lch-lab' %}
