---
date: 2022-09-06T17:06:00+0100
title: A Case for the 1-Dimensional Grid
description: Reaching for Grid might feel like overkill for a one-column layout, but I hope this technique shows how useful it is in understanding what your CSS is doing!
tags:
  - css
---

By and large, it feels like nowadays the general advice is to use *Flex* for 1-dimensional layouts and *Grid* for 2-dimensional layouts. This is mainly due to *Flex* only being able to define a flow of content in *either* the block or inline directions, whereas *Grid* can operate on both directions.

We’ll use short block of HTML as an example, and we need to figure out how to represent the content responsively, with two columns of content for wider browsers and one column for smaller browsers:

{% codepen 'abGOPPJ/d3e12063afda1eae308b87e1d4c4d915', true, 200 %}

```html
<main class="parent">
    <h1 class="title">Title</h1>
    <article class="content">Content</article>
    <aside class="sidebar">Sidebar</aside>
</main>
```

{% codepen 'KKRpbWY/28ee57e1013e60b2a561f45f2b7b995d', true, 200 %}

When it comes to architecting the columns of a website responsively across browsers, here are a few `display` options that we’ve reached for over the years.

## Block

By defining each element that needs to slide into the column as `display: block`, they will naturally stack in the page’s block direction (code is a rough approximation):

```css
.sidebar {
    float: left;
}
@media (    th: 500px) {
    .title,
    .sidebar,
    .content {
        float: none;
        display: block;
    }
}
```

However, without further `display` options, this doesn’t offer us a clean method of moving the sidebar to where we want it to be, visually. That's where *Flex* came in…

## Flex

When `display: flex` became an option, we suddenly had a bunch of new tools in our kit to exercise control over the flow of content. In particular, the ability to change the `order` of items in the flow allows us to do powerful things like have the sidebar come sequentially *after* the content but *visually appear* before it in the browser (code is a rough approximation).

```css
.parent {
    display: flex;
    flex-direction: column;
}
@media (min-width: 501px) {
    .parent {
        flex-direction: row;
    }
    .sidebar {
        order: 1;
    }
}
```

## Grid

We can take this idea of reordering things on the page with *Flex* to the next level with *Grid*.

Let’s start by making some simple declarations about where we want our grid *children* to live, and this is where this method really shines:

```css
.title {
    grid-column: main;
    grid-row: title;
}

.sidebar {
    grid-column: aside;
    grid-row: sidebar;
}

.content {
    grid-column: main;
    grid-row: content;
}
```

Because we have the ability to define the *name* of our grid areas, we can tell the title, sidebar, and content blocks *where* to live and reading the code gives you a clear understanding of where they live… but where *do* they live?

Let’s start with the more complicated part, the desktop/wider layout:

```css
.parent {
    display: grid;
    grid-template-columns:
        [aside-start] 1fr [aside-end main-start] 3fr [main-end];
    grid-template-rows:
        [sidebar-start title-start]
        auto
        [title-end content-start]
        auto
        [content-end sidebar-end];
}
```

In the same way that we’ve told the grid’s children *where* to live, here we’re defining the order and dimensions of the grid’s columns and rows with some defined names.

In the column/inline direction, we’ve defined an <q>aside</q> column that’s `1fr` wide and a <q>main</q> column that’s `3fr` wide.

In the row/block direction, we’ve defined a <q>sidebar</q> row, <q>title</q> row, and <q>content</q> row, each with a height of `auto`.

Now let’s work out how to use the same named areas for mobile/thinner browsers:

```css
.parent {
    display: grid;
    grid-template-columns: 1fr;
    grid-template-rows:
        [title-start]
        auto
        [title-end sidebar-start]
        auto
        [sidebar-end content-start]
        auto
        [content-end];
}
```

In the column/inline direction, we’ve defined a single column with a width of `1fr`. You may notice that we haven’t defined any names here, as we did before. This means that each grid child element will be automatically matched, and their `grid-column` declarations will have no effect. But that’s fine because this does exactly what we want with less moving parts. In fact, you can completely remove the entire `grid-template-columns: 1fr;` declaration here because the browser can make an inference and apply this on its own.

In the row/block direction, things look very much the same as desktop/wider code, but the arrangement of `start` and `end` named areas is different. For this mobile/thinner layout, we don’t have any overlapping rows anymore and are stacking the <q>title</q> block on top of the <q>sidebar</q> block on top of the <q>content</q> block.

So how do we combine everything here to create a responsive layout?

```css
.parent {
    display: grid;
    grid-template-rows:
        [title-start]
        auto
        [title-end sidebar-start]
        auto
        [sidebar-end content-start]
        auto
        [content-end];
}
@media (min-width: 501px) {
    .parent {
        grid-template-columns:
            [aside-start] 1fr [aside-end main-start] 3fr [main-end];
        grid-template-rows:
            [sidebar-start title-start]
            auto
            [title-end content-start]
            auto
            [content-end sidebar-end];
    }
}
```

Because we’ve made the part of the code that tells an element *where* to live (`grid-column` and `grid-row`) completely rely on areas defined by us, we don’t need to make any declarations about layout *within* the <q>title</q>, <q>sidebar</q>, or <q>content</q> blocks, a really useful difference from using *Flex’s* `order`.

The other clear advantage is not having to contend with a tangled mess of `order` declarations, reminiscient of `z-index` woes of days [gone past](/article/variables-for-both/#the-setup).

Even if we need to make more complex additions to a layout built like this, the complication at least lives inside the grid parent’s code, rather than spread throughout the code of its children. The process is quite clear from the code that we’ve laid out, too: define *where* your addition should live with `grid-column` and `grid-row`; create and/or redefine your named areas and their dimensions as necessary to accomodate.

**Useful tip:** you don’t necessarily need to fill a named area! Depending on the arrangement of columns and rows, an area can have no width, no height, and even both. This can be really handy if you wanted to do something like show the sidebar *above* the content on some pages and *below* on others: you could define a `sidebar-top` row and a `sidebar-bottom` row and control which one your sidebar should live in with some extra CSS.

### Container Queries

Although they’re [not quite stable yet](/feature-watch/), Container Queries can work as a replacement for the Media Queries that we used to toggle between the desktop/wider layout and mobile/thinner layout:

```css
body {
    container: page / inline-size;
}
.parent {
    display: grid;
    grid-template-rows:
        [title-start]
        auto
        [title-end sidebar-start]
        auto
        [sidebar-end content-start]
        auto
        [content-end];
}
@container (inline-size > 500px) {
    .parent {
        grid-template-columns:
            [aside-start] 1fr [aside-end main-start] 3fr [main-end];
        grid-template-rows:
            [sidebar-start title-start]
            auto
            [title-end content-start]
            auto
            [content-end sidebar-end];
    }
}
```

Let me know if you’ve got other useful techniques like this, and let’s keep our fingers crossed that Container Queries are safe to use soon! Check out the [polyfill](https://github.com/GoogleChromeLabs/container-query-polyfill) in the meantime.
