---
date: 2024-08-16T16:13:34+0800
in_reply_to:
  title: What's Your Style?
  url: https://flamedfury.com/posts/whats-your-style/
tags:
  - css
---

If I go back and look at [the first version of my website from 2008](https://v1.chrisburnell.com/), it looks like I was a `style.css` guy.

I resent *so much* about that decision. 😂

I mean, I guess they *are* called Cascading Style Sheets, not Cascading Style**s** Sheets, so maybe there’s an argument to be made there for using `style.css`, but I won’t be the one defending that position!

Recently, though, I tend not to use either `style.css` or `styles.css`.

Ever since the notion of **Critical CSS** entered the scene, I’ve named things a bit differently. Because the idea here is to split a website’s styles into two sets—one that is required for <q>above the fold</q> content, or many/all pages; and another that is needed to style the rest of the website—I’ve started naming the two stylesheets `critical.css` and `defer.css`.

What *actually* happens on my website these days is that I use the 11ty plugin, [eleventy-plugin-bundle](https://github.com/11ty/eleventy-plugin-bundle), to combine various SCSS partials into two buckets (also named `critical` and `defer`), and the plugin generates a chunk of CSS that gets inlined in the `<head>` and another chunk that gets spat out into a content-hashed file location and gets referenced by a `<link>` tag.

So, in short, I’ve still got a fondness in my heart for ol’ faithful, `/css/styles.css`, but what I actually do in practice differs. That being said, I think there’s a future where, like native Web Components for example, CSS comes bundled with the HTML that it’s associated with as a best practice. And with that being a possibility, I think it’s reasonable to assume that I’ll be naming my CSS files `styles.css` once again!
