---
date: 2024-05-14T23:09:41+0800
title: Tempest
description: Keeping up with [Weblog Posting Month](https://web.archive.org/web/20240420081004/https://weblog.anniegreens.lol/weblog-posting-month-2024) has been *tiring*, so I’m going to take the slightly easy way out today by posting a short excerpt from a <abbr title="Dungeons and Dragons">D&D</abbr> story/campaign I’ve been writing on and off for a couple of years.
tags:
  - ttrpg
  - weblogpomo
  - weblogpomo2024
post_includes:
  - weblogpomo2024.njk
---

A scene unfolds before you akin to the clash of titans, as the tempest roars with a great fury. Mighty torrents of water, icy and fierce, cascade over the gunwales of the ship, and the ship groans and shudders as if in agony, each wave a relentless attack upon its wooden frame. The very air crackles with energy as thunder and lightning split the heavens, casting fleeting light across the jagged world around.

Figures, mere shadows against the swirling sky, heave and pull against the barbaric onslaught of the storm. Wave after wave, like blasts from a cannon, come crashing down upon these wretched souls, whose fates, like the ropes that have calloused and shredded their hands, are bound to this ill-omened vessel. A cold and bitter wind tears at the sails and drowns out the tormented cries all around you.

And yet, amidst the chaos, a gradual shift begins to take hold. Moment by moment, as if guided by some unimaginable force, the ship begins to find its rhythm amidst the discordant symphony of wind and wave.

Then, as quickly as it had begun, the storm abates, leaving in its wake an unsettling silence. The roiling waters soon turn to a glassy stillness, and the air hangs heavy with a salty and forboding fog. As if the very elements were holding their breath in anticipation, time seems to slow to a halt, the world frozen, broken only when a faint and gentle whisper seems to unfurl on the air…
